Subject: Student Robotics Bristol

To whom it may concern.

Student Robotics is an exciting competition, held annually at the University of Southampton, between teams of students from sixth form schools and colleges. Participating teams start with a kit and a £70 budget provided by us (see the website for the current kit - https://www.studentrobotics.org/schools/kit/) and have to design, build and test fully autonomous robots, ready to compete against other teams. Finally each team will be visited by at least one mentor once a week to advise and help encourage good practice within teams. The competition happens each year around Easter time and has been running for several years now. This year we have 22 teams from 18 different schools competing.

This year’s competition is called “Pirate Plunder”; robots will be racing to collect cube-shaped tokens, and get them back to a bucket in their home zone. Robots can also steal each other's buckets, leading to a variety of possible tactics. The competition changes each year so you will be presented with an equally exciting challenge for the 2012/2013 competition.

Due to Student Robotics becoming increasingly popular, a branch was opened in Bristol. Since then teams including Bristol Grammar School, Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Clifton High have competed with teams from Southampton, France and Germany. 

Student Robotics Bristol is always looking for more teams to take part. It would be great if *Insert School Name Here* could put together a team for the 2012/2013 competition. Not only is the competition great fun, but also has numerous other benefits. Team members learn how to work as a team, how to design and build electronic and mechanical systems, how to manage their online presence (so they can show the world the awesome things they have done) and many other qualities which are incredibly useful when applying to university or going into work.

Finally As you may be aware, there has been a recent push for schools and colleges to teach students more programming in ICT/computing lessons, as opposed to passive use of computers. Student Robotics is ideally positioned to help students, who have shown a high level of interest in these new topics, to further their learning. The robot built by the students is fully autonomous; therefore the programming aspect of the challenge is quite large and also allows knowledge to be applied to a real-world situation. From our past experience we've seen that this leads to some very interesting and genuinely brilliant creations.

If you are interested in creating a team please email me (jhacker@studentrobotics.org) and I can arrange a meeting or send you any further details you may require.

More information is available on our website: www.studentrobotics.org

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions.

Regards,

Joe Hacker
Student Robotics Bristol – Schools Liaison
